BEC-63: beacon reader example (#2)
api3dao/beacon-reader-example: README.md

# Beacon Reader Example

> A starter project for reading beacon values from a smart contract

This project is composed of the following:

1. A test that uses a mocked RrpBeaconServer to simulate reading a beacon value from a smart contract.
1. A script to deploy the BeaconReaderExample contract to any network. This script will set the address of the RrpBeaconServer contract deployed on the selected network and after the script finishes it will display the address of the contract deployed but also save this address to `deployments` directory on the root of this repo. If selected network is not `hardhat` or `localhost` then this address must be then whitelisted by the RrpBeaconServer manager account prior to reading the beacon value.

## Instructions

1. Clone this repo
1. Run the following to install the dependencies

```sh
npm install
```

Now depending on the network you are using you will need to do the following:

### Default network

> Simplest way to test this project is by using the integrated [Hardhat network](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-network/) and not extra steps are needed in this case to run both the test and the deployment script.

Reviewer: Typo
```suggestion
The simplest way to test this project is by using the integrated [Hardhat network](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-network/), in which case no extra steps are needed to run both the test and the deployment script.
```

#### Test

```sh
hardhat test test/BeaconReaderExample.test.js

> ```

Reviewer: After running `npm install` then this command I got an error:
```sh
$ hardhat test test/BeaconReaderExample.test.js
hardhat: command not found
```
The same command prefixed with `npx` did run (I had to prefix all commands with `npx` from here forward), but errored:
```sh
$ npx hardhat test test/BeaconReaderExample.test.js
Error HH8: There's one or more errors in your config file:

  * Invalid value undefined for HardhatConfig.networks.undefined.url - Expected a value of type string.
  * Invalid value {} for HardhatConfig.networks.undefined - Expected a value of type HttpNetworkHDAccountsConfig.
```
which is because the `hardhat.config.js` has interpolated values from `.env`, which isn't present, just `.env.example`. Consequently I feel there should be instructions regarding how to prepare the `.env` file for each network.

This issue actually applies to all `hardhat` commands at the moment because the config file appears to always get read.

I created a `.env` file then this worked.

Author: I'm going to make interpolation more resilient in order to only require creating a .env when user wants to use a remote network (other than hardhat or localhost)

#### Script

```sh
hardhat run scripts/deploy.js

> hardhat run scripts/read-beacon.js

Reviewer: The `deploy` step worked, but then ran into this error with  the `read-beacon` step:
```sh
$ npx hardhat run scripts/read-beacon.js
Error: call revert exception (method="readBeacon(bytes32)", errorArgs=null, errorName=null, errorSignature=null, reason=null, code=CALL_EXCEPTION, version=abi/5.5.0)
    at Logger.makeError (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/logger/src.ts/index.ts:225:28)
    at Logger.throwError (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/logger/src.ts/index.ts:237:20)
    at Interface.decodeFunctionResult (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/abi/src.ts/interface.ts:425:23)
    at Contract.<anonymous> (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/contracts/src.ts/index.ts:392:44)
    at step (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/contracts/lib/index.js:48:23)
    at Object.next (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/contracts/lib/index.js:29:53)
    at fulfilled (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/contracts/lib/index.js:20:58) {
  reason: null,
  code: 'CALL_EXCEPTION',
  method: 'readBeacon(bytes32)',
  errorArgs: null,
  errorName: null,
  errorSignature: null,
  address: '0xe7f1725E7734CE288F8367e1Bb143E90bb3F0512',
  args: [
    '0xf797ab0ee716cbfaa29a1e7866ea69216d077c4aca6ce49b096b110e7ac76ce9'
  ],
  transaction: {
    data: '0x1de7e45bf797ab0ee716cbfaa29a1e7866ea69216d077c4aca6ce49b096b110e7ac76ce9',
    to: '0xe7f1725E7734CE288F8367e1Bb143E90bb3F0512',
    from: '0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266',
    gasLimit: BigNumber { value: "29023448" }
  }
}
```

```

### Localhost network

You could also start a local ethreum node by running the following command on a separate terminal:

```sh
hardhat node
```

#### Test

```sh
hardhat test test/BeaconReaderExample.test.js --network localhost
```

#### Script

```sh
hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network localhost
hardhat run scripts/read-beacon.js --network localhost

> ```

Reviewer: This all worked for me 👍 
```sh
Beacon value:  BigNumber { value: "123456789" } 
```

### Remote networks

> This will require that you set some parameters in an .env file. You could rename the [.env.example](./.env.example) file in the root of this repo and replace the placeholders with valid values.

Reviewer: See my comment above about how all hardhat commands appear to depend on a present `.env` because of config interpolation, which suggests that this should be rephrased and moved to the top of the instructions.

# Beacon Reader Example

> A starter project for reading beacon values from a smart contract

This project is composed of the following:

1. A test that uses a mocked RrpBeaconServer to simulate reading a beacon value from a smart contract.
1. A script to deploy the BeaconReaderExample contract to any network. This script will set the address of the RrpBeaconServer contract deployed on the selected network and after the script finishes it will display the address of the contract deployed but also save this address to `deployments` directory on the root of this repo (except for hardhat network since this network is started and stop just for the duration of the script execution).
1. A script to read the beacon value from the deployed contract. If selected network is not `hardhat` or `localhost` then this address must be then whitelisted by the RrpBeaconServer manager account prior to reading the beacon value.

## Instructions

1. Clone this repo
1. Run the following to install the dependencies

```sh
npm install
```

Now depending on the network you are using you will need to do the following:

### Default network

> Simplest way to test this project is by using the integrated [Hardhat network](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-network/) and not extra steps are needed in this case to run both the test and the scripts.

Reviewer: Typo / grammar fix again:
```suggestion
The simplest way to test this project is by using the integrated [Hardhat network](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-network/), in which case no extra steps are needed to run both the test and the scripts.
```

#### Test

```sh
npx hardhat test test/BeaconReaderExample.test.js

> ```

Reviewer: A few warnings, but working now 👍 
```sh
> npx hardhat test test/BeaconReaderExample.test.js
Compiling 3 files with 0.8.9
Warning: Visibility for constructor is ignored. If you want the contract to be non-deployable, making it "abstract" is sufficient.
 --> contracts/BeaconReaderExample.sol:9:5:
  |
9 |     constructor(address _rrpBeaconServerAddress) public {
  |     ^ (Relevant source part starts here and spans across multiple lines).

Warning: Unused local variable.
  --> contracts/BeaconReaderExample.sol:15:24:
   |
15 |         (int224 value, uint32 timestamp) = rrpBeaconServer.readBeacon(
   |                        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Warning: Unused function parameter. Remove or comment out the variable name to silence this warning.
  --> contracts/RrpBeaconServerMock.sol:53:25:
   |
53 |     function readBeacon(bytes32 beaconId)
   |                         ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Compilation finished successfully

  BeaconReaderExample
    ✓ Should return the beacon value (777ms)

  1 passing (780ms)

```

Author: I can get rid of the warning in `BeaconReaderExample` by just using the timestamp but I don't think is worth doing anything about the unused variable warning in the `RrpBeaconServerMock` contract since it's used only for local testing.

Reviewer: Agreed- the one remaining warning isn't a big deal

#### Script

```sh
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js
npx hardhat run scripts/read-beacon.js
```

### Localhost network

You could also start a local ethreum node by running the following command on a separate terminal:

```sh

> hardhat node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npx hardhat node
```

```

#### Test

```sh
npx hardhat test test/BeaconReaderExample.test.js --network localhost
```

#### Script

```sh
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network localhost
npx hardhat run scripts/read-beacon.js --network localhost
```

### Remote networks

This will require that you set some parameters in an .env file. You could rename the [.env.example](./.env.example) file in the root of this repo and replace the placeholders with valid values.

For instance if you wanted to deploy the contract on [Polygon Mumbai Testnet](https://docs.polygon.technology/docs/develop/network-details/network/) you will need to set `NETWORK=polygon-mumbai` and `PROVIDER_URL=https://rpc-mumbai.matic.today`. Keep in mind that you'll need to also set the `MNEMONIC` of an account that needs to have enough funds.

#### Test

```sh

> npx hardhat test test/BeaconReaderExample.test.js --network polygon-mumbai

Reviewer: This succeeded when I used `rinkeby`, but on `polygon-mumbai` I ran into the cryptic error below. This is with a freshly funded wallet containing 0.5 MATIC and it was the same error for both infura and the `PROVIDER_URL` above.
```sh
> npx hardhat test test/BeaconReaderExample.test.js --network polygon-mumbai

  BeaconReaderExample
    1) Should return the beacon value

  0 passing (21s)
  1 failing

  1) BeaconReaderExample
       Should return the beacon value:
     Error: call revert exception (method="readBeacon(bytes32)", errorArgs=null, errorName=null, errorSignature=null, reason=null, code=CALL_EXC
EPTION, version=abi/5.5.0)
      at Logger.makeError (node_modules/@ethersproject/logger/src.ts/index.ts:225:28)
      at Logger.throwError (node_modules/@ethersproject/logger/src.ts/index.ts:237:20)
      at Interface.decodeFunctionResult (node_modules/@ethersproject/abi/src.ts/interface.ts:425:23)
      at Contract.<anonymous> (node_modules/@ethersproject/contracts/src.ts/index.ts:392:44)
      at step (node_modules/@ethersproject/contracts/lib/index.js:48:23)
      at Object.next (node_modules/@ethersproject/contracts/lib/index.js:29:53)
      at fulfilled (node_modules/@ethersproject/contracts/lib/index.js:20:58)
      at processTicksAndRejections (internal/process/task_queues.js:95:5)
```

Author: I'm getting the same on polygon and interestingly enough the address of the supposed BeaconReaderExample contract displayed by the deploy script, doesn't seem to be correct when going and checking it on https://mumbai.polygonscan.com/ 🤔

Author: Well, it seems to be an issue between hardhat and mumbai testnet https://github.com/nomiclabs/hardhat/issues/2162

Author: Workaround of waiting for the contract creation tx to complete seems to do the trick.

```

#### Script

```sh
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network polygon-mumbai

> npx hardhat run scripts/read-beacon.js --network polygon-mumbai

Reviewer: Successfully got to to the following (expected) error with `rinkeby`: `error: ProviderError: execution reverted: Caller not whitelisted`, although the error was buried in a message also complaining about gas estimates:
```sh
> npx hardhat run scripts/read-beacon.js --network rinkeby
Error: cannot estimate gas; transaction may fail or may require manual gas limit (error={"name":"ProviderError","code":3,"_isProviderError":true
,"data":"0x08c379a000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000200000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
01643616c6c6572206e6f742077686974656c697374656400000000000000000000"}, method="call", transaction={"from":"0x2E103c7502c1cAd0c11404F17D7C6339Db6
5626f","to":"0x6C2D6f0BC0F9b16616253fD1f1aA6AD7940DaC73","data":"0x1de7e45b6f71ad6bd1ce170abd6a64aad72131587d28696e90459e1d5d6ac8a2e889c507","ac
cessList":null}, code=UNPREDICTABLE_GAS_LIMIT, version=providers/5.5.2)
    at Logger.makeError (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/logger/src.ts/index.ts:225:28)
    at Logger.throwError (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/logger/src.ts/index.ts:237:20)
    at checkError (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/providers/src.ts/json-rpc-provider.ts:80:16)
    at EthersProviderWrapper.<anonymous> (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/providers/src.ts/json-rpc-provider.
ts:562:20)
    at step (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/providers/lib/json-rpc-provider.js:48:23)
    at Object.throw (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/providers/lib/json-rpc-provider.js:29:53)
    at rejected (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@ethersproject/providers/lib/json-rpc-provider.js:21:65)
    at processTicksAndRejections (internal/process/task_queues.js:95:5) {
  reason: 'cannot estimate gas; transaction may fail or may require manual gas limit',
  code: 'UNPREDICTABLE_GAS_LIMIT',
  error: ProviderError: execution reverted: Caller not whitelisted
      at HttpProvider.request (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/hardhat/src/internal/core/providers/http.ts:49:19)
      at HDWalletProvider.request (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/hardhat/src/internal/core/providers/accounts.ts:187:34)
    at processTicksAndRejections (internal/process/task_queues.js:95:5)
      at EthersProviderWrapper.send (/home/derek/api3/beacon-reader-example/node_modules/@nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers/src/internal/ethers-provider-
wrapper.ts:13:20),
  method: 'call',
  transaction: {
    from: '0x2E103c7502c1cAd0c11404F17D7C6339Db65626f',
    to: '0x6C2D6f0BC0F9b16616253fD1f1aA6AD7940DaC73',
    data: '0x1de7e45b6f71ad6bd1ce170abd6a64aad72131587d28696e90459e1d5d6ac8a2e889c507',
    accessList: null
  }
}
``

Author: Yes. I'm seeing that too but I would like to get the BeaconReaderExample contract whitelisted in a network like Rinkeby and see if the error still appears when the contract is able to read the value successfully.
